README.md, before:

# Fast Temporal Recovery

`fasttr` is an efficient package for the uniform sampling of histories of a
graph growth. Its core is in C++, but it has a python interface, thanks to
[pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11).
Sampling is also made efficient by the use of [SamplableSet](https://github.com/gstonge/SamplableSet).

The principal element of the package is the class HistorySampler, that allow
the efficient sampling of histories, but also the calculation of node marginal
arrival time, posterior distribution, etc.

## Requirements and dependencies

* A compiler with C++11 support
* `python3`
* `pybind11` version >= 2.2
* `networkx`
* `numpy`

## Installation

Clone this repository, then use pip to install the module.
```bash
pip install ./fasttr
```

## A peak under the hood

On the python side, one only needs to have a networkx.Graph representation of
the network, and a function specifying the attachement kernel.

On the C++ side, HistorySampler is created using a template class. This template accept any type of
node labels, if a hash object exists in the standard library. Otherwise, one needs to specialize
the std::hash structure.

```
├── src
    ├── hash_specialization.hpp
```
Then, to expose the new C++ node label to python, one needs add it to the binder.

```
├── src
    ├── bind_fasttr.hpp
```

To further wrap the new associated HistorySampler, it needs to be added to the python wrapper.

```
├── fasttr
    ├── _wrapper.py
```

Once this is done, the class can be used elegantly in python. Basic types are already implemented :

* `int`
* `str`

## Usage

### Initialization


```python
import networkx as nx
from fasttr import HistorySampler

G = nx.barabasi_albert_graph(100,1)

# Basic constructor calling
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G)
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G, seed=42) #uniform attachement kernel
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G, kernel=lambda k: k, seed=42) #LPA kernel
```

If you are trying to infer a certain kernel, it might be useful to specify a
gradient for the kernel according to some parameter. For instance, assuming a
kernel of the form $k + a$, where $a$ is a parameter, we would have

```python
a = 1
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G, kernel=lambda k: k + a,
                                 grad_kernel=lambda k: 1, seed=42)
```

### Basic operations : sampling, accessing members, changing the kernel

```python
#sampling histories uniformly
nb_sample = 100
history_sampler.sample(nb_sample) #the histories are stored in the object

#accessing the histories
history_list = history_sampler.get_histories()
```

**Note :** if you resample histories, the previous ones are erased.

```python
history_sampler.sample(100) #still got only 100 histories in memory
```

Other useful properties that can be accessed
```python
#log (natural base) of the probability of each history and its gradient
log_posterior_list = history_sampler.get_log_posterior()
grad_log_posterior_list = history_sampler.get_grad_log_posterior()

#mean of the marginal distribution for the arrival time of each node
marginal_mean_dict = history_sampler.get_marginal_mean()

#adjacency dict
adjacency_dict = history_sampler.get_adjacency()
```

One can change the attachement kernel function. The log posterior for each
history is then automatically recalculated.
```python
history_sampler.set_kernel(kernel=lambda k: k**0.5) #Non-linear PA kernel
```

One can also set the kernel and the gradient of the kernel at the same time.
```python
a = 1
history_sampler.set_kernel(kernel=lambda k: k**0.5 + a,
                           grad_kernel=lambda k: 1)
```

Commit message:

add citation to python package

README.md, after:

# Fast Temporal Recovery

`fasttr` is an efficient package for the uniform sampling of histories of a
growing tree. Its core is in C++, but it has a python interface, thanks to
[pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11).
Sampling is also made efficient by the use of [SamplableSet](https://github.com/gstonge/SamplableSet).

The principal element of the package is the class HistorySampler, that allow
the efficient sampling of histories, but also the calculation of node marginal
arrival time, posterior distribution, etc.

See the official python code on which this package is built :
[temporal-recovery-tree-py](gcant/temporal-recovery-tree-py)

## Requirements and dependencies

* A compiler with C++11 support
* `python3`
* `pybind11` version >= 2.2
* `networkx`
* `numpy`

## Installation

Clone this repository, then use pip to install the module.
```bash
pip install ./fasttr
```

## A peak under the hood

On the python side, one only needs to have a networkx.Graph representation of
the network, and a function specifying the attachement kernel.

On the C++ side, HistorySampler is created using a template class. This template accept any type of
node labels, if a hash object exists in the standard library. Otherwise, one needs to specialize
the std::hash structure.

```
├── src
    ├── hash_specialization.hpp
```
Then, to expose the new C++ node label to python, one needs add it to the binder.

```
├── src
    ├── bind_fasttr.hpp
```

To further wrap the new associated HistorySampler, it needs to be added to the python wrapper.

```
├── fasttr
    ├── _wrapper.py
```

Once this is done, the class can be used elegantly in python. Basic types are already implemented :

* `int`
* `str`

## Usage

### Initialization


```python
import networkx as nx
from fasttr import HistorySampler

G = nx.barabasi_albert_graph(100,1)

# Basic constructor calling
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G)
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G, seed=42) #uniform attachement kernel
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G, kernel=lambda k: k, seed=42) #LPA kernel
```

If you are trying to infer a certain kernel, it might be useful to specify a
gradient for the kernel according to some parameter. For instance, assuming a
kernel of the form $k + a$, where $a$ is a parameter, we would have

```python
a = 1
history_sampler = HistorySampler(G, kernel=lambda k: k + a,
                                 grad_kernel=lambda k: 1, seed=42)
```

### Basic operations : sampling, accessing members, changing the kernel

```python
#sampling histories uniformly
nb_sample = 100
history_sampler.sample(nb_sample) #the histories are stored in the object

#accessing the histories
history_list = history_sampler.get_histories()
```

**Note :** if you resample histories, the previous ones are erased.

```python
history_sampler.sample(100) #still got only 100 histories in memory
```

Other useful properties that can be accessed
```python
#log (natural base) of the probability of each history and its gradient
log_posterior_list = history_sampler.get_log_posterior()
grad_log_posterior_list = history_sampler.get_grad_log_posterior()

#mean of the marginal distribution for the arrival time of each node
marginal_mean_dict = history_sampler.get_marginal_mean()

#adjacency dict
adjacency_dict = history_sampler.get_adjacency()
```

One can change the attachement kernel function. The log posterior for each
history is then automatically recalculated.
```python
history_sampler.set_kernel(kernel=lambda k: k**0.5) #Non-linear PA kernel
```

One can also set the kernel and the gradient of the kernel at the same time.
```python
a = 1
history_sampler.set_kernel(kernel=lambda k: k**0.5 + a,
                           grad_kernel=lambda k: 1)
```
